.TH view3dscene 1 "12 May 2013" "Castle Game Engine" "Viewer for 3D models, VRML / X3D browser"
.SH NAME
view3dscene \- VRML / X3D browser and viewer for other 3D models.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B view3dscene
[\fIfile\fR] [\fIoptions...\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B view3dscene
is a VRML /X3D browser and viewer for other 3D models.

.SH USAGE

.B view3dscene
takes the following arguments:
.TP
.B file
The 3D model file to open.

.TP
.B All command-line options are optional.

.TP
.B \-h / \-\-help
Print the help message and exit.

.TP
.B \-v / \-\-version
Print the version number and exit.

.TP
.B \-H / \-\-hide\-extras
Do not show anything extra (like status text or toolbar or bounding box) when program starts. Show only the 3D world.

.TP
.B \-\-write
Load the scene, optionally process by \-\-scene\-change\-xxx,  save it as X3D to the standard output, exit. Use \-\-write\-encoding to choose encoding.

.TP
.B \-\-write\-encoding classic|xml
Choose X3D encoding to use with \-\-write option. Default is "classic".

.TP
.B \-\-write\-force\-x3d
Force conversion from VRML to X3D with \-\-write option. Note that if you choose XML encoding  (by \-\-write\-encoding=xml), this is automatic. Note that this works sensibly only for VRML 2.0 (not for older Inventor/VRML 1.0, we cannot convert them to valid X3D for now).

.TP
.B \-\-screenshot TIME IMAGE\-FILE\-NAME
Take a screenshot of the loaded scene at given TIME, and save it to IMAGE\-FILE\-NAME. You most definitely want to pass 3D model file to load at command\-line too, otherwise  we'll just make a screenshot of the default black scene.

.TP
.B \-\-screenshot\-range TIME\-BEGIN TIME\-STEP FRAMES\-COUNT FILE\-NAME
Take a FRAMES\-COUNT number of screenshots from TIME\-BEGIN by step TIME\-STEP. Save them to a single movie file (like .avi) (ffmpeg must be installed and available on $PATH for this) or to a sequence of image files (FILE\-NAME must then be specified like image@counter(4).png).

.TP
.B \-\-viewpoint NAME
Use the viewpoint with given name or index as initial. Especially useful to make a screenshot from given viewpoint.

.TP
.B \-\-anti\-alias AMOUNT
Use full\-screen anti\-aliasing. Argument AMOUNT is an integer >= 0. Exact 0 means "no anti\-aliasing", this is the default. Each successive integer generally makes method one step better. Especially useful to make a screenshot with anti\-aliasing quality.

.TP
.B \-\-audio\-device DEVICE\-NAME
Choose specific OpenAL audio device. See the available device names in the \-\-help output, or in the "Preferences \-> Sound Device" menu.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-sound
Turn off sound.

.TP
.B Window options (backend GTK+):

.TP
.B \-\-geometry WIDTHxHEIGHT<sign>XOFF<sign>YOFF
Set initial window size and/or position.

.TP
.B \-\-fullscreen
Set initial window size to cover whole screen.

.TP
.B \-\-fullscreen\-custom WIDTHxHEIGHT
Try to resize the screen to WIDTHxHEIGHT and then set initial window size to cover whole screen.

.TP
.B \-\-display DISPLAY\-NAME
Use given X display name.

.TP
.B Debug options:

.TP
.B \-\-debug\-log
Write log info to stdout.

.TP
.B \-\-debug\-log\-cache
Write log info, including cache.

.TP
.B \-\-debug\-log\-shaders
Write log info, including shader source and log.

.TP
.B \-\-debug\-log\-changes
Write log info, including VRML/X3D graph changes.

.TP
.B Deprecated options:

.TP
.B \-\-scene\-change\-no\-normals
Remove normals information from the loaded scene. Forces automatic calculation of normal vectors. Deprecated, doing this from command\-line is not usually useful.

.TP
.B \-\-scene\-change\-no\-solid\-objects
Make all shapes not solid in the loaded scene. Disables backface culling. Deprecated, doing this from command\-line is not usually useful.

.TP
.B \-\-scene\-change\-no\-convex\-faces
Treat all faces as potentially concave in the loaded scene. Deprecated, doing this from command\-line is not usually useful.

.TP
.B \-\-write\-to\-vrml
Deprecated, shortcut for "\-\-write \-\-write\-encoding=classic".

.TP
.B \-\-camera\-radius RADIUS
Set camera sphere radius used for collisions and determinig moving speed. Deprecated, consider using NavigationInfo node inside your scene instead.

.TP
.B \-\-navigation EXAMINE|WALK|FLY...
Set initial navigation style. Deprecated, consider using NavigationInfo node inside your scene instead.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IP
.BR  tovrmlx3d (1)
